The biggest and brightest stars that we have in the STEM fields, obviously,
are the ones who are good at math and science but in the general
sense, it's more your ability to think about things logically. So,
if you're good at puzzles, if you get some kind of question that you
don't know the answer to but you're willing to, kind of, research
that until you find the solution, then STEM is a good career for you.
This is what I mean. For me, as an electrician, there isn't that
much math that I did and there's not that much science that I did. However,
when I'm looking at a circuit and I see that one part is open
and I'm familiar with most of the things on the circuit. Well, this
is a short, this is a motor, this is a generator, this is a capacitor
but there are some things on there that I don't know. If I put down
the circuit and say, "Well, I guess that's it." Then, maybe STEM
isn't good enough for me, well, maybe I'm not good enough for STEM.
However if I can look at it and I realize that I don't know the situation
and I can turn around to other people or I can look in the book
myself and figure out, "Okay, well, so that's what this thing does.
Well, let's look at the power. I don't understand the way that this
math works." So, let me again look to see, like, "Okay, well this
goes up, this goes down, this is the function for this" and then look
at another book, it's like,"Oh, okay" and then I can backtrack all
the way to that component to kind of figure out what it does at the
end. If I'm willing to do that process, then STEM is for me. It's
kind of like a goose chase. If you like goose chases and the goose chase
that you're doing is math and science oriented and that's fun for
you, that sounds like something that's fun, then STEM is for you.
If you just look at a problem and you get really frustrated and you
want to throw the book out the window, if you found yourself doing
that a lot, then there are other jobs that you might find more interesting
and more fun, more satisfying than STEM.